Vision Texture 1.0 (3/25/95)                     
=============================================================================

This readme file contains a text version of the documentation
maintained on the Vision Texture homepage.  To obtain the latest
information about VisTex check the homepage:

http://www-white.media.mit.edu/vismod/imagery/VisionTexture/vistex.html


FILES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This distribution of VisTex includes these files:

Images - contains symbolic links to images in the FLAT directory
	Images/Reference/ 	- reference textures arranged by category
	Images/Scenes/		- texture scenes 
	Images/VideoTextures/	- NOT AVAILABLE IN THIS RELEASE
	Images/Orbits/		- NOT AVAILABLE IN THIS RELEASE

FLAT - image files arranged by size

photobook - photobook annotation information



DATABASE DESCRIPTION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

	Vision Texture is a collection of texture imagry for the
computer vision community.  Unlike other texture collections, the
images in VisTex do not conform to rigid frontal plane perspectives
and studio lighting conditions.  Instead, the images that make up
VisTex are taken from many sources including examples of from common 
("real-world") photography and video. The database has 4 main
components:
    
	- Reference Textures .. 100+ homogeneous textures in frontal
				and oblique perspectives.
	- Texture Scenes ...... Images with multiple textures.
				("real-world") scenes. 
	- Video Textures ...... Sequences of temporal textures. 
				(NOT AVAILABLE IN ver 1.0)
	- Video Orbits ........	Images within a common projective group.
				(NOT AVAILABLE IN ver 1.0)


OBTAINING THE DATABASE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using FTP

The distribution site for the Vistion Texture database is:

	whitechapel.media.mit.edu

Because of the large size of the database (240 megs uncompressed), the
distribution is broken up into several smaller files for transfer via
ftp.  The directory   pub/VisTex   contains these files.  Transfer all
the compressed tar files along with the extraction script
(buildVisTex) to your local machine.  The script buildVisTex
uncompresses the files and restores the VisTex directory structure.

The compressed files for VisTex are large.  We strongly suggest that
the database be downloaded during none peak hours. 


Using the World Wide Web

	You can use your favorite net browser to download the
database.  To transfer a copy of the compressed Vistex database click
here.  The compressed files for VisTex are large.  We strongly suggest
that the database be downloaded during none peak hours. 


Installing the Database

To install VisTex you will need the tar and compress unix file
utilities.  The buildVisTex script unpacks the database files using
uncompress and tar.  The script should be run from the directory that
contains the compressed tar files.  


 
ABOUT THE VISION TEXTURE DATABASE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

About the Sections

The images that make up the VisTex database are stored in a flat
directory structure according to image size (VisTex/FLAT). The 4
sections of  the VisTex database are accessed through a directory
structure that contains symbolc links to the images in the flat
directories.  By using symbolic links, images may appear in several
categories, but are stored once. The images in this sense are
seperated from the classification system.


Reference Textures

In the Reference Texture section the images are grouped according to
what they are.  The (VisTex/Images/Reference) directory contains
groups such as grass, water, brick, buildings, clouds, . . . etc.
Within these directories are the symbolc links to the image files
located in the FLAT directory. 


Texture Scenes

The Texture Scenes section is arranged so that the links to all images
relating to a given scene are in the same directory. The name of the
scene dirctories come from the dominant textures in the scene. Within
each scene directory (i.e. VisTex/Images/Scenes/GrassPlantsSky) there
is a file / symbolic link named context1.ppm. This file is either a
786x512 or 512x786 image depending on the orientation of the scene.
The other files in the directory are texture patches (usually
homogeneous) taken from within the scene. While these detail patches
are visible within the context scene, they are taken from alternate
images so that the perspective and lighting varies slightly between
the context and detail image.


Video Textures

This section is not yet available for release in version 1.0. 


Video Orbits

This section is not yet available for release in version 1.0. 




GENERAL INFORMATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

File Formats and Image Size

All images in the Vision Texure database are stored as raw ppm (P6)
files. Currently there are 2 standard sizes for images in VisTex:
512x512, and 128x128. All images in the Reference Texture section and
the texture patches from Texture Scenes are available in these sizes.
The context images for the Texture Scenes section are 786x512 and
192x128.  Vertically oriented images are available at 512x786 and
128x192.  In most cases the textures in the database are available by
special request up to 3072 x 2048.


Annotations

Annotations for the images are stored in the header of each ppm image.
The current annotations for the database include: 

	- content 
	- lighting 
	- perspective 
	- Brodatz replacement number 
	- source 
	- notes 

The ppm header this <IMAGE IN HTML CODE> image of tree bark looks like this:

        P6
        # CONTENTS tree bark
        # LIGHTING daylight direct right
        # PERSPECTIVE frontal plane
        # BRODATZ D13
        # SRC PCD 3174 2022 0103 #46
        # NOTES -
        512 512
        255

Comment lines in ppm files begin with #. VisTex uses comment lines to
store image annotations. The capatalized word after # is the
annotation tag.  Anything following the tag is considered to be the
value of the tag.  A list of current annotation tags and their
possible values is available. 

For more information about the ppm file format see the browsers section
in this document for information about the PBMPlus toolkit. 



BROWSERS AND SUPPORT PROGRAMS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Photobook

The preferred browser for the Vision Texture database is Photobook.
Photobook is an interactive browser of image databases which uses
machine vision to perform queries based on content.  Besides providing
the capabilities to search on keyword annotations, photobook allows
the user to perform queries based on "content", as defined by which
vision algorithm is used. For example, images may be queried based on
low-level features such as coarseness, color histogram,
directionality, or periodicity.  Suitable vision algorithms may even
allow queries based on higher-level features such as the presence of
certain objects or the spatial relationships of those objects.

The VisTex distribution site maintains the latest additions to
Photobook's precomputed image data for the database.  This data allows
the user to create custom groupings and indicies for the database.


XV Image Viewer

XV is John Bradley's popular image browser for X. The program allows
for simple browsing as well as basic image manipulation (filtering,
color adjustment, and scaling). To obtain a copy of XV see the XV
distribution site (ftp.cis.upenn.edu), or download the tar and
compressed distribution (xv-3.10a.tar.Z) of XV directly from this
page. The compressed XV file is 3.4 megs. 

To load images into XV change into the directory with the images and
run: xv *.ppm. Since annotations are stored in the ppm file headers
they are available through the "Image Comments" command under the
windows menu in XV. 


PBMPlus Image Toolkit

PBMPlus is a popular set of image conversion and manipulation programs
by Jef Poskanzer. The various programs that make up the toolkit work
on the portable pixel map (ppm) file format which VisTex uses. While
the kit does not provide a browser, it does have many useful routines
for handling the images in VisTex. 

The PBMPlus Toolkit is available via anonymous ftp from
ftp.ee.lbl.gov. The file pbmplus10dec91.tar.Z contains the source for
the Toolkit which needs to be compiled. To compile PBMPlus to work
with TIFF images Sam Leffler's TIFF Software package is required.



COPYRIGHTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright 1995 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
All rights reserved.

Developed by Rosalind Picard, Chris Graczyk, Steve Mann, Josh Wachman,
Len Picard, and Lee Campbell at the Media Laboratory, MIT, Cambridge,
Massachusetts. 

This distribution is approved by Nicholas Negroponte, Director of the
Media Laboratory, MIT.

Permission to use, copy, modify, publicly display and distribute this
database and/or the individual images in electronic or print form is
hereby granted without fee provided that (i) all use of the images is 
solely for educational and research purposes; (ii) all distribution of
the images is at no-cost, except for recovery of cost of the media;
and (iii) the copyright notice and the authors name(s) appear on all
copies copies, and this permission notice is included with each
distribution.  You may also publish the images in scholarly journals
to report research results without further permission from MIT.  Any other
commercial distribution or publication of the images, in original or
modified form, requires the prior written permission of MIT. The name
of MIT and/or the Media Laboratory may not be used in advertising or
publicity without the prior written permission of MIT. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3/25/95 - Chris Graczyk - cgraczyk@media.mit.edu











